README.md, before:

# Gameportal-ubi

Summary: Backend portal, contains info for game info, player info, events info, and rewards. Uses a MongoDB database, provides API routes for calling the server and doing CRUD operations.

- Recommended browser: Chrome
- Recommended browser extenstion, for reading JSON: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/jsonview/chklaanhfefbnpoihckbnefhakgolnmc/related?hl=en

- Deployed on Heroku: https://gameportal-ubi.herokuapp.com/
- Stored on Github: https://github.com/khoi148/gameportal-ubi
- Database in MongoDB

## API Usage Instructions:

**STEP 1** First go to the heroku link, to ping the server, might take a few seconds to start it.
**STEP 2** Use the routes described below to get responses in your browser. Output is in JSON, so a JSON formatter browser extension is recommended.

\_i.e. Example of a route `/gameinfo/5f23a62f2840bd54b08019d7`
It starts after the URL: `https://gameportal-ubi.herokuapp.com/gameinfo/5f23a62f2840bd54b08019d7`

Recommended: Use [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)
A tool to ping specific routes, with GET/PUT/POST request options.
Note: The `/insert...` routes, and the update player `PUT` routes in requirement two, require POST and PUT requests to use. Using the browser input bar only uses GET requests.

# Requirement 1: "Provide an API to know all the game information and upcoming events."

**STEP 1**
Start with route

- POST `/insertgames`, then
- POST `/insertevents`,
  to reset the game and event databases, and insert some generic default entries.

**STEP 2**
-Use GET `/gameinfo/listgames` to see a list of games in the Databases.
-Use GET `/listevents` to see a list of events for each game, in the Database
-When listing games, pick one game, and use it's ID for the next step.

**STEP 3**
-Use GET `/gameinfo/:gameId`,
i.e `/gameinfo/5f23a62f2840bd54b08019d7`
To see info about one specific game, and it's upcoming events. All of its events will be listed with it.

# Requirement 2: "Provide an API to get/update a player’s information in a specific game"

**STEP 1**
Start with route

- POST `/insertplayers`
  to reset the player database, and insert some generic default players

**STEP2**
-Use GET `/playerinfo/listplayers` to see a list of players in the Database. Choose one player, use their playerId and gameId values, for the next step
-Use GET `/gameinfo/:gameId/playerinfo/:playerId`
i.e. `/gameinfo/5f27162dab76f761fa931160/playerinfo/1001-1`
To lookup one player's info

**STEP3**
-Use PUT `/gameinfo/:gameId/playerinfo/:playerId/stars/:newStars/coins/:newCoins`
i.e. `/gameinfo/5f27162dab76f761fa931160/playerinfo/1001-1/stars/599/coins/300`
To change the star and coin values for one player
-Use PUT `/gameinfo/:gameId/playerinfo/:playerId/fullname/:newName`
i.e. `/gameinfo/5f27162dab76f761fa931160/playerinfo/1001-1/fullname/MegamanX`
To change the name of one player

# Requirement 3: "Provide an API to get rewards from players when the event completes"

IN Progress

Commit message:

Finished the get reward feature

README.md, after:

# Gameportal-ubi

Summary: Backend portal, contains info for game info, player info, events info, and rewards. Uses a MongoDB database, provides API routes for calling the server and doing CRUD operations.

- Recommended browser: Chrome
- Recommended browser extenstion, for reading JSON: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/jsonview/chklaanhfefbnpoihckbnefhakgolnmc/related?hl=en

- Deployed on Heroku: https://gameportal-ubi.herokuapp.com/
- Stored on Github: https://github.com/khoi148/gameportal-ubi
- Database in MongoDB

## API Usage Instructions:

**STEP 1** First go to the heroku link, to ping the server, might take a few seconds to start it.
**STEP 2** Use the routes described below to get responses in your browser. Output is in JSON, so a JSON formatter browser extension is recommended.

\_i.e. Example of a route `/gameinfo/5f23a62f2840bd54b08019d7`
It starts after the URL: `https://gameportal-ubi.herokuapp.com/gameinfo/5f23a62f2840bd54b08019d7`

Recommended: Use [Postman](https://www.postman.com/)
A tool to ping specific routes, with GET/PUT/POST request options.
Note: The `/insert...` routes, and the update player `PUT` routes in requirement two, require POST and PUT requests to use. Using the browser input bar only uses GET requests.

# Requirement 1: "Provide an API to know all the game information and upcoming events."

**STEP 1**
Start with route

- POST `/insertgames`, then
- POST `/insertevents`,
  to reset the game and event databases, and insert some generic default entries.

**STEP 2**
-Use GET `/gameinfo/listgames` to see a list of games in the Databases.
-Use GET `/listevents` to see a list of events for each game, in the Database
-When listing games, pick one game, and use it's ID for the next step.

**STEP 3**
-Use GET `/gameinfo/:gameId`,
i.e `/gameinfo/5f23a62f2840bd54b08019d7`
To see info about one specific game, and it's upcoming events. All of its events will be listed with it.

# Requirement 2: "Provide an API to get/update a player’s information in a specific game"

**STEP 1**
Start with route

- POST `/insertplayers`
  to reset the player database, and insert some generic default players

**STEP2**
-Use GET `/playerinfo/listplayers` to see a list of players in the Database. Choose one player, use their playerId and gameId values, for the next step
-Use GET `/gameinfo/:gameId/playerinfo/:playerId`
i.e. `/gameinfo/5f27162dab76f761fa931160/playerinfo/1001-1`
To lookup one player's info

**STEP3**
-Use PUT `/gameinfo/:gameId/playerinfo/:playerId/stars/:newStars/coins/:newCoins`
i.e. `/gameinfo/5f27162dab76f761fa931160/playerinfo/1001-1/stars/599/coins/300`
To change the star and coin values for one player
-Use PUT `/gameinfo/:gameId/playerinfo/:playerId/fullname/:newName`
i.e. `/gameinfo/5f27162dab76f761fa931160/playerinfo/1001-1/fullname/MegamanX`
To change the name of one player

# Requirement 3: "Provide an API to get rewards from players when the event completes"

**STEP1**
-Use `/listevents` to see a list of events.
Pick one event and its \_id and gameRef values for the Step 3.

**STEP2**
-Use `/playerinfo/listplayers` again
Choose a player entry, whose gameId matches the gameRef from Step 1.
Use that player's playerId value i.e. '1001-0' in Step 3.

**STEP3**
-Use GET `/event/:eventId/game/:gameId/player/:playerId`
with the appropiate values from STEPS 1 and 2.
This gets the event reward amount AND update the player's rewards with the event amount.
Feel free to use requirement 2's playerlookup feature, to see how the player's rewards changed.
